The examples here are intended to show a continuum of increasing complexity.

The first example (basic/basic0.php) is a simple event reporting text
nugget, to fit into a larger Web interface.  It is intended to
verbalize quadruplets of the form ($agent, $event, $action, $theme),
meaning the agent $agent has performed an $event (started, finished,
make progress) with respect to the action $action on the topic of
$theme.

For example:

  Juan started working on Item 25.

This is a really, really simple example and you might be hard pressed
to justify using a NLG framework for it. Still, readability of the
source code might justify it, particularly as you try to add more
things to it.

The next example (basic/basic1.php) is same as basic0, but this time
with a lexicon for providing texts for $agent and $theme. In a
production system you'll expect this information to be fetched from a
DB and a Lexicon subclass that can be tied to a DB is a planned
feature (see ROADMAP).

The last basic example (basic/basic2.php) uses an ontology to
distinguish between actors that are people and are referred by name
(e.g., Juan) versus events referring to automatic tools (e.g.,
"nightly build").  This information is used to add an article to form
a noun phrase (e.g., "Juan" vs. "The nightly build").  While this
might be the simplest possible use of ontological information for NLG,
it might just as well be too simple.


A whole section of more complex examples using semantic annotations is
planned to go into a folder medium/ . There we want examples that
should how semantic annotations can simplify dealing with number
agreement and pronominalization. The planned example is a SMS-powered
package-delivering notification system that should generate:

* Your two packages were delivered yesterday. The recepient signed
  them in.

* Your package was delivered two days ago. The recepient signed it in.

Again, simple example, but here you can profit from semantic
annotations to the point of simplifying the code and make it much more
reusable.


The final example is a Tarot spread interpreter in the tarot/
folder. This is as complex as it can get and currently it can only
produce an opening statement, referring to the overall "goodness" of
the spread and a then generates a statement about the current
situation (cards 1 and 2).

The ontology only has (vague) information about 11 cards and still can
produce this type of texts:

"Ouch. Currently, you got the empress and the lovers.  The empress
implies a little bit of a puzzle.  This follows the lovers which
implies good things to come.  The lovers refers to relationships,
sexuality but also personal beliefs and values."

"And what is this supposed to mean? Currently, you got the five of
pentacles and the fool.  The five of pentacles implies a little bit of
a puzzle. The pentacles are nurturing, concrete.  This follows the
fool which implies good things to come."

"Things seem to be doing well, I would say. Currently, you got the
lovers and the tower.  The lovers implies good things to come.  The
lovers refers to relationships, sexuality but also personal beliefs
and values.  This strongly opposes the tower which implies something
bad."

"Good, good. Currently, you got the five of pentacles and the ace of
pentacles.  The five of pentacles implies a little bit of a puzzle.
The pentacles are nurturing, concrete.  This follows the ace of
pentacles which implies good things to come.  Same as the other card,
this is also a pentacles."
